Now because our data actually
relates to geographic positions,
we can also look at the data as
it appears on a map in the US.
Let's add a new sheet, and
add in the Latitude and Longitude.
And remember, we need to
uncheck the Aggregate Measures.
And we see that sample
that we brought in.
Now we can drag the PC1
values to the color mark.
And we'll also drag PC1 into the label.
What's interesting, is that when we
look at the map of the US for the same
records that we saw in the first chart,
we see the same pattern as expected.
But the map makes a little
better sense of it.
The lower states have the red points,
and
correspond to the negative PC values,
and higher temperatures.
And as we move up the country to
colder average weather for the year,
the number goes positive, and
the colors shift to dark green,
indicating a lower temperature.
Again, PC1 captures almost
92% of the variants, and
we would expect it to
make the most sense.
Now let's duplicate this sheet, and
substitute PC1 with PC2,
for both color and label.
If we now look at the map
visualization for
PC2, we can still see some groupings,
with the central section of the US
behaving differently than
the coastal sections.
As we'd expect, these groupings
seem uncorrelated to the first map.